# Expectations: `autofill`

- The attribute `autocomplete="off"` **MUST NOT** be used.
- Custom form controls (UI components for data entry) built using JavaScript **MUST NOT** be used if they break the autofill experience. A custom form control built using JavaScript that uses hidden inputs **MUST** reflect the selected value as well as the `:autofill` state in its custom UI.
- `<input>`, `<select>`, and `<textarea>` elements **MUST** be within a `<form>` element.
- Every `<input>`, `<select>`, and `<textarea>` element **MUST** have an `autocomplete` attribute with a valid value. For example, `autocomplete="name"` (for entry of a user's name) or `autocomplete="tel"` (for entry of their telephone number).
- An `<input>` element **MUST** include a `type` attribute if available, for example for email, password, telephone, or  URL entry.
- An `<input>` element used for entry of a telephone (mobile) number **MUST** include the attribute `type="tel"`.
- Every `<input>`, `<select>`, or `<textarea>` element in a form **MUST** have an `id` attribute and a `name` attribute with a non-empty value.
- `id` and `name` attributes **MUST** be unique to each element. `id` and `name` attributes **MUST NOT** be the same for multiple elements.
- The value of the `id` and `name` attributes of a form element **SHOULD** be the same.
- A `pattern` attribute **SHOULD** be provided when appropriate to validate data entry.
- Every `<input>`, `<select>`, or `<textarea>` element in a form **MUST** be visually labeled using a `<label>` element.
- Every `<label>` element **MUST** have a `for` attribute with a value that matches the `id` attribute value of an adjacent `<input>`, `<select>`, or `<textarea>` element element.
- The `type="number"` attribute **MUST NOT** be used for numbers that are not meant to be incremented, such as payment card numbers or telephone numbers. For `<input>` elements used for numbers that are not meant to be incremented, do not include a `type` attribute, or include the attribute `type="text"`, which is the default.
- The attribute `inputmode="numeric"` **MUST** be included in an `<input>` element that is used for input of numbers that are not meant to be incremented, such as payment card numbers or telephone numbers.
- To help browsers autofill forms, every `<input>` element **MUST** have a `name` and `id` attribute that is stable and does not change between page loads or website deployments.
- If separate data is not required for each of the different parts of a personal name, ask for personal names with a single `<input>`. Do not assume that all users have a first name and a last name. If separate data is required for the parts of a user's name, use `<input>` elements with the following format: for first name (also known as given name) `<input name="given-name" id="given-name" type="text" autocomplete="given-name">`, for family name (also known as "last name") `<input name="family-name" id="family-name" type="text" autocomplete="family-name">`. "last name" is a synonym of "family name" and "second name". "given name" is a synonym of "first name". Use the label "First name" for an `<input>` element that has the attribute `autocomplete="given-name"`.
- Unless specified as a requirement, **DO NOT** include a separate form field for the user's title (i.e. an honorific prefix such as Ms, Miss, Mr, or Dr), since this may not work with autofill. If there _is_ a requirement to get a user's title, use an `<input>` element with the following format: `<input name="honorific-prefix" id="honorific-prefix" type="text" autocomplete="honorific-prefix">`. "title" (for example, Ms, Miss, Mr, Dr) is a synonym of "honorific prefix". Use the label "Title" for an `<input>` element that has the attribute `autocomplete="honorific-prefix"`.
- **DO NOT** enforce Latin-only characters for names and usernames.
- If an address form is to be used unchanged in multiple geographical regions (that is, without localization), a single `<textarea>` **MUST** be used for address entry, rather than using multiple `<input>` elements for the parts of an address.
- An address form **MUST** provide an `<input>` element that includes the attribute `autocomplete="postal-code"`. For example: `<input name="postal-code" id="postal-code" type="text" autocomplete="postal-code">`.
- Entry of a postal code in an address form **MUST** be optional, if the form is to be used in multiple geographical regions.
- If an address form is to be used unchanged in multiple geographical regions (that is, without localization), use the label "ZIP or postal code (optional)" for an `<input>` element that has the attribute `autocomplete="postal-code"`.
- The appropriate `autocomplete` attribute and grouping identifier **MUST** be used with form fields in an address form for a shipping or billing address. For example: `<textarea id="shipping-address" name="shipping-address" autocomplete="shipping address" maxlength="300" required></textarea>` or `<textarea id="billing-address" name="billing-address" autocomplete="billing address" maxlength="300" required></textarea>`.
- Appropriate payment card `autocomplete` attributes with valid **MUST** be used in a payment form.
- For user entry of a credit card number in a payment form, use a single `<input>` element with the following format: `<input id="cc-number" name="cc-number" autocomplete="cc-number" inputmode="numeric" maxlength="50" pattern="[\d ]{10,30}" required>`.
- A single `<input>` element **MUST** be used for entry of a payment card number.
- For user entry of a credit card name in a payment form, use the following format: `<input id="cc-name" name="cc-name" autocomplete="cc-name" maxlength="50" pattern="[\p{L} \-\.]+" required>`.
- For user entry of a credit card expiry date in a payment form, use the following format: `<input id="cc-exp" name="cc-exp" autocomplete="cc-exp" placeholder="MM/YY" maxlength="5" required>`.
- For user entry of a credit card security code (also known as CVV, CVC, or CSC) in a payment form, use the following format: `<input id="cc-csc" name="cc-csc" inputmode="numeric" maxlength="4" required> pattern="[0-9]{3,4}"`. An `<input>` element for entry of a credit card security number **MUST** allow entry of 3 or four digits.
- An `<input>`, `<select>`, or `<textarea>` element **MUST** have a `required` attribute if it is mandatory for the user to provide a value for that form field.
- An `<input>` element used for password entry **MUST** have `aria-label` and `aria-describedby` attributes.
- `autocomplete="new-password"` and `id="new-password"` attributes **MUST** be included in an `<input>` element used for entry of a new password in a sign-up form, or for the new password in a change-password form.
- `autocomplete="current-password"` and `id="current-password"` attributes **MUST** be provided in an `<input>` element used for entry of a password in a sign-in form, or for input of the user's old password in a change-password form.
- Do not double-up form fields for passwords or email addresses: do not make the user enter passwords and email addresses twice. Instead, ensure that users confirm their email address, and make it easy for users to reset their password if necessary.
- An `<input>` element used for password entry **MUST** have a `type="password"` attribute.
- The `type="password"`attribute **MUST** only be included on `<input>` elements used for password entry: the `type="password"`attribute **MUST NOT** be used on other types of form fields, such as for OTP entry.
- The `type="email"` attribute **MUST** be included in an `<input>` element used for email entry, to ensure mobile users are provided with an appropriate keyboard.
- For forms, use well-known and easily understood names such as "Sign In", "Create Account", "Register".
- For form fields, use well-known and easily understood label values such as "Name", "Email", "Telephone", and "Password".
- In browsers that support the `:autofill` CSS pseudo-class, the `:autofill` CSS pseudo-class can be used to style autofilled `<input>` elements as required. In browsers that support the `:autofill` CSS pseudo-class, JavaScript or other mechanisms to style autofilled `<input>` elements **SHOULD NOT** be used.
- The `:autofill` CSS pseudo-class **MAY** be used in combination with the `:-webkit-autofill` pseudo-class, in order to maximize compatibility with older browsers. The vendor-prefixed `:-webkit-autofill` pseudo-class is an alias of `:autofill`.
- The `:autofill` CSS pseudo-class **CAN ONLY** be used to style `<input>`, `<select>`, and `<textarea>` elements. The `:autofill` CSS pseudo-class **CANNOT** be used to style elements other than the `<input>`, `<select>`, and `<textarea>` elements.
- `input:autofill` **MAY** be used in combination with other selectors, or with classes or IDs. For example, both of the following selectors are correct: `input.address:autofill` and `section#shipping input:autofill`.
- `:auto-fill` used as a CSS pseudo-class (with a hyphen between "auto" and "fill") is incorrect. The correct CSS pseudo-class is `:autofill`, with no hyphen. The use of `:auto-fill` as a CSS pseudo-class is **INCORRECT**.